#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\numberwithin{equation}{chapter}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\master ../thesis.lyx
\begin_modules
customHeadersFooters
theorems-bytype
theorems-chap-bytype
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language italian
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans lmss
\font_typewriter lmtt
\font_math auto
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 4cm
\headsep 1cm
\footskip 1.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language french
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:problemi-di-ottimizzazione"

\end_inset

DEBS Grand Challange
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
DEBS 2012
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nella edizione 2012 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Jerzak2012"

\end_inset

 problem requires a continuous monitoring of the high-tech manufacturing
 equipment, based on the data gathered by sensors embedded within the equip-ment.
 The goal of the monitoring is to detect and record deviations from the
 predefined (good) system behavior.
 In a typical, existing setup data is first collected from sen-sors within
 the equipment using an embedded PC.
 Subse-quently, it is stored by the PC 1 as raw data in a flat file.
 This file is periodically integrated into a database by the PC 2.
 The analysis of data is performed using the PC 3 connected to the database.
 Only in this last step a possi-ble violation can be detected.
 It can be observed that such setup results in a delayed response to potential
 violations of Key Performance Indicators (KPI).
 The high latency of the response (which currently reaches 30 minutes) is
 the major factor increasing the severity of the KPI violations and their
 direct monetary costs.
 Therefore, the major goal of the DEBS 2012 Grand Chal-lenge was to investigate
 the applicability of the event processing systems to bridge the gap between
 the actual occurrence of the event causing a violation of a predefined
 KPI and the detection of such a violation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The DEBS 2012 Grand Challenge monitoring data orig-inates from the high-tech
 manufacturing equipment.In a typical high-tech manufacturing scenario (a
 single fabrication plant) an aver-age of 1,000 pieces of geographically
 distributed manufactur-ing equipment are operated.
 This results in a 50 Terabytes of data being collected every day.
 This, in turn, requires an event processing system which can sustain a
 continuous workload of 5 Million events per second.
 Neither classical database systems, nor existing, batch oriented systems,
 such as [4, 1], were designed to cope with such scenarios.
 1.
 The analogue sensors produce data in the range 0 − 215.
 Each sensor produces data with a frequency of either 100Hz or 1000Hz.
 Data originating from each sensor is collected by a PC embedded withing
 the manufacturing equipment and aggregated into a single event.
 The embedded PC outputs events with the rate of 100Hz.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of the first query (see Figure 5) is to monitor the energy consumption
 of the manufacturing equipment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The specific goal of the second query is to monitor the dependencies and
 relations between sensors and their switching times.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
DEBS 2013 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nella edizione 2013 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Mutschler2013"

\end_inset

 is to demonstrate the applicability of event based systems for providing
 real- time, continuous analytics for both managers of sport teams as well
 as spectators of sports events.
 On one hand side they provide the competitive edge to team managers allow-
 ing themto take bettermore insightful decisions in real time.
 On the other hand side the ability to operate on real time data allows
 for new and enriched expe- rience for spectators both in stadiums as well
 as in front of TV screens.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The RedFIR tracking system is a Real-Time Locating Sys-tem (RTLS) based
 on time-of-flight measurements, where small transmitter Integrated Circuits
 emit burst signals.
 The locating system is able to receive an overall of 50, 000 of those signal
 bursts per second.
 The 2013 Grand Challenge data set was collected during a football match
 car- ried out at a Nuremberg Stadium in Germany and is com- plemented with
 a set of continuous analytical queries which provide detailed insight into
 the match statistics for both team managers and spectators.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of the running analysis query is to quantify and track how well
 each of the players moves on the playing field.
 The major indicators are the speed and distance covered by each player
 as a function of time.
 To that end the running analysis query should return two classes of results:
 (1) current running statistics and (2) ag- gregate running statistics.
 Aggregate running statistics provides a cumulative view on the running
 performance of a given player.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of the ball possession query is to calculate the ball possession
 for each of the players as well as for each team.
 The ball position query should return two classes of results: (1) per player
 ball possession stream and (2) per team ball possession.
 The per team ball possession should be calculated using five different
 time windows: 1 minute, 5 minutes, 10 minutes, 20 minutes and the whole
 game duration.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of the heat map query is to calculate statistics about the presence
 of each player in a given region of the playing field.
 The system must calculate for each cell and each player the percentage
 of time that the given player spent in the respective cell.
 The statistics should be calculated using five different time windows:
 1 minute, 5 minutes, 10 minutes, 20 minutes and the whole game duration.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The aim of the shoat on goal query is to detect when a player hits the ball
 in an attempt to score a goal.
 The result stream should be updated with the frequency of the sensor data
 until an exit condition occurs.
 Exit con-ditions are: (1) the ball leaves the field, or (2) the direction
 of the ball movement changes so that (the proximity of) the goal area would
 no longer be hit.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
DEBS 2014 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nella edizione 2014 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "JerzakZiekow2014"

\end_inset

 is to demonstrate the applicability of event-based systems to provision
 of scalable, real-time analytics over high volume sensor data.
 The un- derlying scenario stems from the smart grid domain and targets
 the analysis of energy consumption measurements.
 Specifically, the DEBS 2014 Grand Challenge focuses on the two following
 problems: (1) short-term load forecasting and (2) outliers detection for
 real-time demand management.
 The data for the challenge is synthesized based on real-world profiles
 collected from a number of smart-home installations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Grand Challenge 2014 data set is based on simulations driven by real-world
 energy consumption profiles originating from smart plugs deployed in households.
 Smart plugs used in the DEBS 2014 Grand Challenge are equipped with a range
 of sensors that measure different, values related to power consumption.
 For the purpose of the DEBS 2014 Grand Challenge a number of smart plugs
 has been deployed in households with data being collected roughly every
 second for each sensor in each smart plug.
 It has to be noted that the data set is collected in an uncontrolled, real-
 world environment, which implies the possibility of malformed data as well
 as missing measurements.
 no pre-computation based on the whole data set must be made.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of the load prediction query is to make load forecasts based on
 the current load measurements and a model that was learned over historical
 data.
 Such forecasts are used in demand side management to proactively influence
 load and adapt it to the supply situation, e.g., current production of renewable
 energy sources.
 The output streams should be updated every 30 seconds.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of the outliers query is to find the outliers as far as the energy
 consumption levels are concerned.
 The main motivation of this query is to highlight the capability of data
 stream processing systems to cope with correlated aggregate class of problems.
 The query should answer the following question: for each house calculate
 the percentage of plugs which have a median load during the last hour greater
 than the median load of all plugs (in all households of all houses) during
 the last hour.
 The
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
DEBS 2015 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nella edizione 2015 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "JerzakZiekow2015"

\end_inset

 is to demonstrate the applicability of event-based systems to processing
 of geo-spatial data contained within taxi trip reports from the New York
 City.
 Two specific problems targeted: (1) identification of recent frequent routes
 and (2) identification of regions with the highest profit.
 Participants of the challenge are asked to submit innovative and high performin
g solutions to the defined problem.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The data for the 2015 Grand Challenge is based on a data set released under
 the Freedom of Information Law and has been made publicly available by
 Chris Whong1 in March 2014.
 Provided data consists of reports of taxi trips including starting point,
 drop-off point, corresponding timestamps, and information related to the
 payment.
 Data are reported at the end of the trip, i.e., upon arrive in the order
 of the drop-off timestamps.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of the frequent routes query is to find the top ten most frequent
 routes during the last 30 minutes.
 A route is represented by a starting grid cell and an ending grid cell.
 All routes completed within the last 30 minutes are considered for the
 query.
 The output query results must be updated whenever any of the 10 most frequent
 routes changes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of profitable areas query is to identify areas that are currently
 most profitable for taxi drivers.
 The profitability of an area is determined by dividing the area profit
 by the number of empty taxis in that area within the last 15 minutes.
 The profit that originates from an area is computed by calculating the
 median fare including tip for trips that started in the area and ended
 within the last 15 minutes.
 The number of empty taxis in an area is the sum of taxis that had a drop-off
 location in that area less than 30 minutes ago and had no following pickup
 yet.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
